[DOCS] Adds your first serverless backend file (#5)
boostercloud/docs-site: source/includes/_01-your-first-backend-in-10-minutes.md

> # Building your first serverless backend in 10 minutes 

Reviewer: I'd call this something like

```suggestion
# Your first Booster app in 10 minutes 
```

This are the docs of the framework, and it doesn't say anything about serverless before this section, so I'd avoid it. We can just refer to Booster, which is what we're explaining :)

> Building your serverless application backend have never been this easy. In this section, we will go through all the necessary steps to have your backend up and running in a few minutes.

Reviewer: I'd remove this sentence, as we already "sold" the framework in the overview section

```suggestion
In this section, we will go through all the necessary steps to have your backend up and running in a few minutes.
```

> If you follow the steps below, you will be able to create the application backend for a blog.

Reviewer: I'd add this sentence to the previous paragraph, like:

```text
In this section, we will go through all the necessary steps to have your backend up and running in a few minutes. We will be creating the backend for a blog application.
```

We have three paragraphs that mention `steps`, so merging two into one seems like a good idea

Author: Great idea @NickSeagull. I rephrased it based on yours thanks!

The steps to follow will be:
- [Create project](#1-create-the-project)
- [First command](#2-first-command)
- [First event](#3-first-event)
- [First entity](#4-first-entity)
- [First read model](#5-first-read-model)
- [Deployment](#6-deployment)
- [Testing](#7-testing)
    - [Creating posts](#71-creating-posts)
    - [Retrieving all posts](#72-retrieving-all-posts)
    - [Retrieving specific post](#73-retrieving-specific-post)
- [Removing stack](#8-removing-stack)
- [Further improvements](#9-further-improvements)
- [Conclusion](#10-conclusion)

## 1. Create project
First of all, we need to create a base Booster project

> `boost new:project <project-name>`

Reviewer: I'd add the structure of the folder that the command generates here, so it is shown in the sidebar, you can generate it with the `tree` command, I think that `tree -L2` will give you the appropriate one.

Also, I'd add a further explanation about where to write that command

```suggestion

` ``text   <- remove the spaces before the backticks
$ tree -L2
.
|-src
  |- commands
  |- events
  ...
` ``

First of all, we need to create a base Booster project. To do so, we will use the Booster CLI, which
can be invoked by typing `boost` inside of a terminal.

Create your new project by typing the following command into your console. It will generate a folder
with your selected project name.

`boost new:project <project-name>`
```

> You will need to answer a few questions in order to configure the project. One of these steps will require that a provider is selected, we recommend selecting AWS. 

Reviewer: I'd rephrase this as

```suggestion
You will need to answer a few questions in order to configure the project. The last step asks you about a _provider package_, for this tutorial, select AWS.
```

Otherwise, it won't work for the user

> Once the project has been successfully created, you will need to move to the new directory. Ideally, you would also open the project in your most preferred IDE, e.g. Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the project has been successfully created, you will need to move to the new directory, you can do so by typing `cd <your project name>` in a terminal. 

Now open the project in your most preferred IDE, e.g. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
```

> ## 2. First command

Reviewer: I'd add the ending code after this section over here also

```suggestion
## 2. First command

` ``typescript
export class CreatePost {
  ...
}
` ``
```

> We will now define our first command, which will allow us to create Posts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will now define our first command, which will allow us to create posts in our blog.

In a terminal, from the root of your project, type:
```

> `boost new:command CreatePost --fields postId:UUID title:string content:string author:string`

Reviewer: Note that we use `ID` in all capitals. It shouldn't matter, but just to be consistent with the rest of the project.

```suggestion
`boost new:command CreatePost --fields postID:UUID title:string content:string author:string`
```

> These commands creates most of the code for us, which can be seen in `<project-root>/src/commands/CreatePost.ts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates most of the code for us, which can be found in `src/commands/CreatePost.ts`
```

> However, we still need to define a couple of things in this file:
> - Who can trigger our command
> - What events should be triggered

Reviewer: It is good practice to leave a newline before lists in Markdown

```suggestion
However, we still need to define a couple of things in this file:

- Who can trigger our command
- What events should be triggered
```

> For now, we will set the `authorize` configuration to `all`, so anyone can trigger it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the first part, we will let anyone to trigger it. To do so, configure the `authorize` command option to `"all"` (yes, between quotes, it is a string). If you cannot find it, it is right after the `@Command` decorator.
```

> Additionally, the current `CreatePost` command will not trigger any event, so we will have to come back later to set the event that this command will fire up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the current `CreatePost` command will not trigger any event, so we will have to come back later to set the event that this command will fire up. This is done in the `handle` method of the command class. Leave it as it is for now.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If everything went well, you should have now the code you can see on the right.

```

> ## 3. First event
> In this type of backend architectures, events can be triggered by commands or by other events. We will create an event that defines a `Post` creation. 

Reviewer: I'd add the end code here too, and I'll remove the mention of architecture for simplicity, we don't want to get into those details now.

```suggestion
## 3. First event

` ``typescript
export class PostCreated {
  ..
}
` ``

Events can be triggered by commands or by other events. We will create an event that defines that a post has been created.
```

> `boost new:event PostCreated --fields postId:UUID title:string content:string author:string`

Reviewer: Note that we use `ID` in all capitals. It shouldn't matter, but just to be consistent with the rest of the project.

```suggestion
From the root of your project, in a terminal, type:

`boost new:event PostCreated --fields postID:UUID title:string content:string author:string`
```

> You will realize that a new file has been created, `<project-root>/src/events/PostCreated.ts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new file will be created at `src/events/PostCreated.ts`
```

> There is one small thing that we have to define in the above file, which is the returned value for `EntityID()`. We will set the post `UUID`. It should look like this:

Reviewer: We can explain this a little bit:

```suggestion
Now, we have to tell Booster which entity is this event associated to (more on entities in the next section), we don't want to overwrite another post by creating a new one.

To do so, we return the entity ID from the `entityID` method that has been generated. We can return anything here, but given that the event already has a `postID` field, we will return it.
```

```typescript

> public entityID(): UUID {
>     return this.postId
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  public entityID(): UUID {
    return this.postId
  }
```

```

> Now we can go back to the command we created before and add our new event `PostCreated` to the register of events. Your `handle` should look like this:
> ```typescript
> public handle(register: Register): void {
>     register.events(new PostCreated(this.postId, this.title, this.content, this.author))
>   }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can go back to the command we created before in `src/commands/CreateCommand.ts` and add our new event `PostCreated` to the registration of events. 

Your `handle` method for `CreateCommand` should look like this:

` ``typescript
  public handle(register: Register): void {
    register.events(new PostCreated(this.postId, this.title, this.content, this.author))
  }
` ``
```

> ## 4. First entity
> We have now created a command and an event, however, we do not have any data representation of a `Post`. As a result, we will create an `entity`.

Reviewer: Let's add the end code here too

```suggestion
## 4. First entity

` ``typescript
export class Post {
 ..
}
` ``

We have now created a command and an event, however, we do not have any data representation of a blog post. As a result, we will create an entity.
```

> `boost new:entity Post --fields title:string content:string author:string --reduces PostCreated`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the root of your project, in a terminal type:

`boost new:entity Post --fields title:string content:string author:string --reduces PostCreated`
```

> Another file has been created in your project, `<project-root>/src/entities/Post.ts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another file has been created in your project, `src/entities/Post.ts`
```

> The `Post` entity has been created but no projection has been defined, so we will do so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entity can be seen as the current state of a stream of events. The `Post` entity has been created but we didn't define how to [`reduce`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Reduce) the stream of events to get an entity.

To do so, we can fill the _reducer_ function that has been generated for us right under the `@Reduces` decorator.
```

```typescript

> @Reduces(PostCreated)
> public static projectPostCreated(event: PostCreated, currentPost?: Post): Post {
> return new Post(event.postId, event.title, event.content, event.author)
> }

Reviewer: Given that we have the code on the right, we probably don't need this part, do we?

PS: Does the generator create this method with the name `project`? If so, that's a bug

```suggestion
@Reduces(PostCreated)
public static reducePostCreated(event: PostCreated, currentPost?: Post): Post {
  return new Post(event.postId, event.title, event.content, event.author)
}
```

Author: yep, there is a bug then, the template has the following:

```
export const template = `{{#imports}}
import { {{commaSeparatedComponents}} } from '{{{packagePath}}}'
{{/imports}}

@Entity
export class {{{name}}} {
  public constructor(
    public id: UUID,
    {{#fields}}
    readonly {{{name}}}: {{{type}}},
    {{/fields}}
  ) {}

  {{#events}}
  @Reduces({{{eventName}}})
  public static project{{{eventName}}}(event: {{{eventName}}}, current{{{name}}}?: {{{name}}}): {{{name}}} {
    return /* NEW {{name}} HERE */
  }

  {{/events}}
}
```

```

> In the future, we may want to project events for this `Post` entity that require retrieving current `Post` values. In that case we would need to make use of `currentPost`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the future, we may want to reduce events for this `Post` entity that require retrieving current `Post` values. In that case we would need to make use of `currentPost`.

Note that it is nullable, meaning that it can be `undefined` in some cases. (Like when there is no `Post` created, and it is the first time the reducer is being executed)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The full code for the entity can be seen on the right.

```

> ## 5. First read model

Reviewer: Let's add the code for the read model here also

```suggestion
## 5. First read model

` ``typescript
...
` ``

```

> Almost everything is set-up. We just need to provide a way to view the `Posts` of our blog. For that, we will create a `read model`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Almost everything is set-up. We just need to provide a way to view the posts of our blog. For that, we will create a **read model**. They can be seen as a _projection_ of an entity.
```

> `boost new:read-model PostReadModel --fields title:string content:string author:string --projects Post`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

From your project root, type in a terminal:

`boost new:read-model PostReadModel --fields title:string content:string author:string --projects Post`
```

> Once the read-model code has been generated, it will be placed in `<project-root>/src/read-models/PostReadModel.ts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the read-model code has been generated, it will be placed in `src/read-models/PostReadModel.ts`
```

> Similar to the `CreatePost` command we defined at the beginning, we will also need to define a few things:
> - Who can read the `Posts`
> - How the data is manipulated before returning it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to the `CreatePost` command we defined at the beginning, we will also need to define a few things:

- Who can read the `Posts`
- How the data is manipulated before returning it
```

> To make it easy, we will allow anyone to read it:
> ```typescript
> @ReadModel({
>   authorize: 'all'// Specify authorized roles here. Use 'all' to authorize anyone
> })
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make it easy, we will allow anyone to read it.

Change the `authorize` option to `'all'`, right under the `@ReadModel` decorator.
```

> and we will project the whole entity
> 
> ```typescript
> @Projects(Post, "id")
>   public static projectPost(entity: Post, currentPostReadModel?: PostReadModel): PostReadModel {
>     return new PostReadModel(entity.id, entity.title, entity.content, entity.author)
>   }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will project the whole entity, so we will literally copy all the fields from it, into our read model's ones.

You can see how the code looks in the right.
```

> ## 6. Deployment
> Everything we need for a basic project is set. It is time to deploy it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 6. Deployment

Everything we need for a basic project is set. It is time to deploy it:
```

`boost deploy -e production`

It will take a couple of minutes to deploy all the resources.

> When the the serverless backend is successfully deployed you will see information about your stack endpoints. For this basic project we will only need to pick the REST API endpoint, reflected in the output as `backend-application-stack.baseRESTURL`, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the the backend is successfully deployed you will see information about your stack endpoints. For this basic project we will only need to pick the REST API endpoint, reflected in the output as `backend-application-stack.baseRESTURL`, e.g.:
```

`https://<api-gateway-id>.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/production/`

> We will use this endpoint to test our backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use this endpoint to test our backend. Copy this URL somewhere so you can use it again, afterwards.
```

> ## 7. Testing
> Let's get started testing the project. We will perform two actions:
> - Add a couple of posts
> - Retrieve all posts
> - Retrieve a specific post

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 7. Testing

Let's get started testing the project. We will perform three actions:

- Add a couple of posts
- Retrieve all posts
- Retrieve a specific post
```

> To perform the HTTP requests, you might want to use something like `Postman`, although `curl` would also work.

Reviewer: I'd go with GraphQL directly, as it will be the main API, unless the other one requires to be prioritized. Also it gives more advantages. I'd add a link to postwoman here, as its a nice tool to test GraphQL.

	"version": 1,
	"value": {
    	"postId": "95ddb544-4a60-439f-a0e4-c57e806f2f6e",
    	"title": "This is my first post",
    	"content": "I am so excited to write my first post",
		"author": "Some developer"
  }
}
```

The second request:

```json
{
	"typeName": "CreatePost",
	"version": 1,
	"value": {
    	"postId": "05670e55-fd31-490e-b585-3a0096db0412",
    	"title": "This is my second post",
    	"content": "I am so excited to write my second post",
		"author": "Some developer"
  }
}
```

We should now have two `Posts` in our backend, no authorization header is required since we have allowed `all` access to our commands and read models.

### 7.2 Retrieving all posts
In order to retrieve the information we just sent, lets perform a `GET` request that will be hitting our read model `PostReadModel`:

`https://<api-gateway-id>.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/production/readmodels/PostReadModel`

### 7.3 Retrieving specific post
It is also possible to retrieve specific a `Post` by adding the `postId` to the URL, e.g.:

`https://<api-gateway-id>.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/production/readmodels/PostReadModel/95ddb544-4a60-439f-a0e4-c57e806f2f6e`

> 

Reviewer: Can you rewrite this section by using GraphQL?

Author: what I'm wondering is whether we want to get people straight into an extra layer of complexity with GraphQL 🤔. Don't you think that the GraphQL could be done as an extra?

Author: Rewrote everything using graphql, thanks @NickSeagull and @alvaroloes

> ## 8. Removing stack
> If you want to un-deploy your backend, just execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 8. Removing stack

Now, let's undeploy our backend. **Remember that it costs you money to have it on idle**.

To do so, execute the following command from the root of your project, in a terminal.
```

`boost nuke -e production`

> It will ask you to verify the project name, it will be the same one that it was written when we created the project. If you don't remember the name, go to `<project-root>/package.json` and copy the `name`. 

Reviewer: Nope, it has to be the one from `config` 😬 

```suggestion
It will ask you to verify the project name, it will be the same one that it was written when we created the project. If you don't remember the name, go to `config/production.ts` and copy the `name` field. 
```

> ## 9. Further improvements
> The are many other options for your serverless backend built with Booster Framework:
> - GraphQL API available with subscriptions
> - Securing requests depending on user roles
> - Events that trigger more events
> - Reading entity snapshots in handlers to apply domain-driven decisions
> - and much more...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 9. Further improvements

The are many other options for your serverless backend built with Booster Framework:

- GraphQL subscriptions
- REST API
- Securing requests depending on user roles
- Events that trigger more events
- Reading entity snapshots in handlers to apply domain-driven decisions
- and much more...

But we won't be covering them in this section. Keep reading if you want to know more!
```

## 10. Conclusion
If you reached this point following all the steps you have created a serverless backend in less than 10 minutes. This framework intends to simplify the tedious process of building a backend from scratch. Furthermore, it reduces the infrastructure management work by automatically provisioning anything your project needs. It is not just magic, it is Booster Framework.

We hope you have enjoyed it and we would like to remind you that Booster Framework is an open-source project and your contributions to make it better will be much appreciated.

> Thank you very :D

Reviewer: I love this section, although I'm not sure if the tone fits under the documentation, given that the user will keep scrolling down. What do you think? Should we rephrase it? Should we remove it?

Author: I think we should rephrase it to something like, "Congratulations! you've built a serverless backend in less than 10 minutes. We hope you have enjoyed discovering the magic of Booster Framework, please keep reading if you want to know more about it."

Author: I removed the conclusion section and added a green `aside`

## 3. First event
> New event

```bash
boost new:event PostCreated --fields postId:UUID title:string content:string author:string
```
In this type of backend architectures, events can be triggered by commands or by other events. We will create an event that defines a `Post` creation. 

```text
|- <your-project-name>
  |- src
    |- events/PostCreated.ts
```
You will realize that a new file has been created:

> Define entity id

```typescript
public entityID(): UUID {
  return this.postId
}
```
There is one small thing that we have to define in the above file, which is the returned value for `EntityID()`. We will set the post `UUID`. It should look like this:

> `PostCreated` event

```typescript
@Event
export class PostCreated {
  public constructor(
    readonly postId: UUID,
    readonly title: string,
    readonly content: string,
    readonly author: string,
  ) {}

  public entityID(): UUID {
    return this.postId
  }
}
```
Your event should look like this:

> Add event to `CreatePost` Command

```typescript
public handle(register: Register): void {
    register.events(new PostCreated(this.postId, this.title, this.content, this.author))

>   }

Reviewer: Some indentation fixes

```suggestion
public handle(register: Register): void {
  register.events(new PostCreated(this.postId, this.title, this.content, this.author))
}
```

```
Now we can go back to the command we created before and add our new event `PostCreated` to the register of events. Your `handle` should look like this:

## 4. First entity
> New entity

```bash
boost new:entity Post --fields title:string content:string author:string --reduces PostCreated
```

We have now created a command and an event, however, we do not have any data representation of a `Post`. As a result, we will create an `entity`.

```text
|- <your-project-name>
  |- src
    |- entities/Post.ts
```
Another file has been created in your project, you will need to add the implementation of its projection:

> > Projection

Reviewer: Let's call this reducer:

```suggestion
Another file has been created in your project, you will need to add the implementation of its reducer:

> Reducer
```

```typescript
@Reduces(PostCreated)
public static projectPostCreated(event: PostCreated, currentPost?: Post): Post {
return new Post(event.postId, event.title, event.content, event.author)

> }

Reviewer: Same here, let's call it reducer, and fix the CLI.

(Also, indentation)

```suggestion
@Reduces(PostCreated)
public static reducePostCreated(event: PostCreated, currentPost?: Post): Post {
  return new Post(event.postId, event.title, event.content, event.author)
}
```

```

In the future, we may want to *project* events for this `Post` entity that require retrieving current `Post` values. In that case we would need to make use of `currentPost` argument. 

> `Post` entity

```typescript
@Entity
export class Post {
  public constructor(
    public id: UUID,
    readonly title: string,
    readonly content: string,
    readonly author: string,
  ) {}

  @Reduces(PostCreated)
  public static projectPostCreated(event: PostCreated, currentPost?: Post): Post {
    return new Post(event.postId, event.title, event.content, event.author)

>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  @Reduces(PostCreated)
  public static reducePostCreated(event: PostCreated, currentPost?: Post): Post {
    return new Post(event.postId, event.title, event.content, event.author)
  }
```

}
```
The full code for the entity can be seen on the right.

## 5. First read model
> New read model

```bash
boost new:read-model PostReadModel --fields title:string content:string author:string --projects Post
```
Almost everything is set-up. We just need to provide a way to view the `Posts` of our blog. For that, we will create a `read model`.

```text
|- <your-project-name>
  |- src
    |- read-models/PostReadModel.ts
```
Once the read-model code has been generated, we will also need to define a few things:

- Who can read the `Posts`
- How the data is manipulated before returning it

```typescript
@ReadModel({
  authorize: 'all'// Specify authorized roles here. Use 'all' to authorize anyone
})
```
To make it easy, we will allow anyone to read it:

```typescript
@Projects(Post, "id")
  public static projectPost(entity: Post, currentPostReadModel?: PostReadModel): PostReadModel {
    return new PostReadModel(entity.id, entity.title, entity.content, entity.author)

>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@Projects(Post, "id")
public static projectPost(entity: Post, currentPostReadModel?: PostReadModel): PostReadModel {
  return new PostReadModel(entity.id, entity.title, entity.content, entity.author)
}
```

```
and we will project the whole entity

> `PostReadModel` read model

```typescript
@ReadModel({
  authorize: 'all'// Specify authorized roles here. Use 'all' to authorize anyone
})
export class PostReadModel {
  public constructor(
    public id: UUID,
    readonly title: string,
    readonly content: string,
    readonly author: string,
  ) {}

  @Projects(Post, "id")
  public static projectPost(entity: Post, currentPostReadModel?: PostReadModel): PostReadModel {
    return new PostReadModel(entity.id, entity.title, entity.content, entity.author)
  }
}
```
The read model should look like the code on the right:

## 6. Deployment
```bash
boost deploy -e production
```
Everything we need for a basic project is set. It is time to deploy it:

It will take a couple of minutes to deploy all the resources.

> > GraphQL endpoint
> 
> ```text
> https://<api-gateway-id>.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/production/graphql

Reviewer: Perhaps this? Users could have different regions configured, also they do not need to know what's API GW

```suggestion
> Example GraphQL endpoint

```text
https://<some random number>.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/production/graphql
```

> Query all posts response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "PostReadModels": [
      {
        "id": "05670e55-fd31-490e-b585-3a0096db0412",
        "title": "This is my second post",
        "content": "I am so excited to write my second post",
        "author": "The other developer"
      },
      {
        "id": "95ddb544-4a60-439f-a0e4-c57e806f2f6e",
        "title": "This is my first post",
        "content": "I am so excited to write my first post",
        "author": "Some developer"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
You should expect a response similar to this:

> GraphQL query, specific posts

```graphql
query {
  PostReadModel(id: "95ddb544-4a60-439f-a0e4-c57e806f2f6e") {
      id
      title
      content
      author
  }
}
```
### 7.3 Retrieving specific post

It is also possible to retrieve specific a `Post` by adding the `id` as input, e.g.:

> Query specific posts response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "PostReadModel": {
      "id": "95ddb544-4a60-439f-a0e4-c57e806f2f6e",
      "title": "This is my first post",
      "content": "I am so excited to write my first post",
      "author": "Some developer"
    }
  }
}
```
You should expect a response similar to this:

## 8. Removing stack

> Now, let's undeploy our backend. **Remember that it costs you money to have it on idle**.
> 

Reviewer: I'd make this more highlighted:

```suggestion
Now, let's undeploy our backend. 

<aside class="warning">
<b>Remember:</b> It costs you money to have it on idle!
</aside>
```

> Undeploy stack

```bash
boost nuke -e production
```
To do so, execute the following command from the root of your project, in a terminal:

It will ask you to verify the project name, it will be the same one that it was written when we created the project. If you don't remember the name, go to `config/production.ts` and copy the `name` field. 

## 9. More functionalities

The are many other options for your serverless backend built with Booster Framework:

- GraphQL subscriptions

> - REST API

Reviewer: This will be removed I think, so we can remove it for now

```suggestion
```
